# happiness_regression_analysis

## <font size="4"> I.	Preface </font>

The topic of our report is happiness regression modeling and data analysis. Based on the correlation between the happiness scores and the indicators provided in the report. We analyze which factors have the most significant impact on happiness and which the government or enterprises can use to enhance the well-being of the people in the future. The indicators include GDP per capita, life expectancy, social freedom, generosity, and the corruption index, which are used to analyze the data. In addition, we compare the data before and after the epidemic to see whether people are less happy during the epidemic.

## <font size="4"> II.	Issue </font>

Are people happy living in Taiwan? The annual World Happiness Report, funded by the United Nations, is based on data from the Gallup World Poll, which interviews 1,000 respondents in each country and asks them to rate their current life on a scale of 0 for the worst and 10 for the best. In the latest 2022 report, Finland was the happiest country for the 5th consecutive year, while Taiwan was ranked 26th, the first in East Asia. We asked most of the people around us, and most of the results we got were that they were more unhappy than happy, so we were pretty curious about what factors are related to the happiness level in this report to make Taiwan jump to the top of the list of the happiest countries in East Asia. Therefore, we analyzed the data from Kaggle to find out what factors are most related to happiness, and we hope to find out the secret of joy through our data analysis.
With the outbreak of the epidemic at the end of 2019, lifestyles have been drastically affected, with more restrictions on wearing masks and fewer outings. Therefore, we wanted to determine whether people's happiness levels would drop drastically due to living in a more restrictive and depressing environment after the outbreak or if it would only have a slight impact. Therefore, we compared the happiness level after the attack in 2019 with the happiness level before 2019 to observe the psychological impact of the epidemic on the people.

## <font size="4"> III.	Data Collecting and Preprocessing </font>

Using the eight years of happiness files from 2015 to 2022 on Kaggle, we processed the data for missing values, analyzed the variables and happiness levels, visualized the data, etc. Depending on the situation, the missing values will be filled in with KNN method. Since countries and variables are different in different years, we will select the same variables in eight datasets, such as happiness, GDP, health, freedom, generosity, and corruption index, to illustrate the definition of each variable and the significance of each number in the datasets, as well as to select 150 or so countries that are the same by using a suite of identifiers and organize them into one complete dataset.

## <font size="4"> IV.	Data Analysis and Model Building </font>

We divided the data analysis into two parts. The first part is the regression model generation of happiness level. We analyze and compare the data itself and between happiness level and other variables, including the correlation between each variable and happiness level, the normal distribution of the data, etc., and deal with the variables with high covariance for model optimization. In the second part, we start from the time point, take 2019/12 as the boundary, cut the data into pre-epidemic and post-epidemic, and compare the changes in happiness index, other variables, and the correlation between them in each country under the two states, to visualize the data, and put forward our analyses and insights.
First of all, for the model generation part, we visualize the data first and use a heat map to arrange all the variables according to the size of the correlation coefficients to observe the correlation coefficients of the variables more precisely and use reshape2 to analyze the variables that have a high correlation with the happiness level. We will also use qqplot to examine the normal distribution of the happiness index and other variables. Since the number of countries is about 150, the data distribution should be normal. In addition, we will also use ggplot to observe the relationship between happiness levels of different countries and PCA method to observe the principle components to process and simplify the model for the variables that are similar between correlation and happiness levels.
In the second part, the comparison before and after the epidemic, since we believe that the outbreak of the epidemic has caused a decrease in people's mobility and freedom, and many reports have shown that staying in confined spaces for an extended period is prone to depression and agitation, we will use different methods of verification, such as t-test(), regression analysis lm(), etc., to examine the change of happiness index after the outbreak of the epidemic, and visualize the data, to read the relationship between happiness index and happiness level of different countries. We also visualized the change in the happiness index after the outbreak of the epidemic and judged the effect of the epidemic on the happiness level. In addition, we will also examine the correlation between happiness and the variables before and after the outbreak to see whether the outbreak's impact has changed the causes of happiness.



